Title: Azure Data Lake and Power BI Dashboard - Blackcoffer Insights

Home
Our Success Stories
Azure Data Lake and Power BI Dashboard
Our Success Stories
Lifestyle & eCommerce
Research & Academia
Azure Data Lake and Power BI Dashboard
By
Ajay Bidyarthy
-
January 16, 2022
5887
Client Background
Overview
Stone is a video bibliographic tool for journalists and other researchers.
It allows users to capture, annotate and share their journeys through digital and physical space, producing verifiable logs and generating monetizeable video highlight reels that can be embedded in digital and other media – showcasing key moments and telling the story behind the story.
Our mission is to address distrust and disinformation with transparency and authenticity, while simultaneously tilting the information ecosystem in favour of quality original work.
Research is valuable. Make it Visible.
Write In Stone.
Website
http://www.writeinstone.com
Company size
2-10 employees
Headquarters
Blackheath, New South Wales
Founded
2017
Specialties
Research Transparency, Trust, Video Content, Journalism, Proof Of Work, and Bibliographic Standards
Project Objective
Working on Microsoft Azure Analytics Services
Verifying that indicators are being gathered in an intended manner, in line with GDPR provisions
Building and analyzing dashboards and, specifically, conversion funnels
Project Description
To determine whether the already implemented indicators in are in intended fashion (separated by where these indicators are placed in the currently constituted funnel)
Implement New Indicators
Research Logged
Average Number of Highlights per Project
Total Hours of Content Produced
Total Hours of Content Watched
Daily unique visitors engaging with Stone, including the landing page, public research page(s), and the research portal
Assess the dashboard set up in Azure, refine the existing dashboard, and determine whether an alternative is preferable.
Review, refine, and optimize the WIS conversion funnel(s)
Our Solution
Built a Power BI dashboard as per the requirement. Also built a separate dashboard for the metric data from Azure.
Project Deliverables
Power BI dashboard which contains indicators funnels, new indicators(Research logged, Average number of Highlights per projects, Total hours of content watched etc), visualizations  extracted from metric data.
Tools used
Power BI
Azure
Language/techniques used
Power BI
DAX
Kusto Query
Azure
Skills used
Data collection
Data Analysis
Data cleaning
Feature engineering
Querying
Visualization
Databases used
Azure database
Web Cloud Servers used
Azure
What are the technical Challenges Faced during Project Execution
Difficulty in data collection.
Previous article
Advantages and Disadvantages of E-learning during the COVID-19 for students and teachers
Next article
Creating a custom report and dashboard using the data got from Atera API
Ajay Bidyarthy
RELATED ARTICLES
MORE FROM AUTHOR
Integrating Machine Learning Code into Kubeflow Pipeline – Kuberflow MLOps Kubernetes
Facial Recognition Attendance System
Face Recognition Using DeepFace
MOST POPULAR INSIGHTS
Will technology eliminate the need for animal testing in drug development?
October 22, 2020
End-to-end tool to optimize routing and planning of field engineers using...
February 28, 2024
Streamlined Trading Operations Interface for MetaTrader 4: Empowering Efficient Management and...
March 17, 2024
COVID-19: How have countries been responding?
April 30, 2020
Load more
RECOMMENDED INSIGHTS
Marketing Analytics – Why do we care about it?
Impacts of COVID 19 on Food products
Rise of Cybercrime and its Effect by the Year 2040.
Google Local Service Ads (LSA) Data Warehouse