Title: Creating a custom report and dashboard using the data got from Atera API - Blackcoffer Insights

Home
Our Success Stories
Creating a custom report and dashboard using the data got from Atera...
Our Success Stories
IT
Creating a custom report and dashboard using the data got from Atera API
By
Ajay Bidyarthy
-
January 16, 2022
6225
Client Background
Client:
A leading Marketing firm in USA
Industry Type:
Marketing
Services:
Marketing, consulting, ads, business solutions
Organization Size:
20+
Project Description
Atera.com is used as our RMM, we have an agent on every machine. Which tracks the if a machine goes down, initial response time etc.., The website doesn’t provide any standard reports, So we needed to create a custom report.
Our Solution
Importing the data from Atera API into Jupyter
Using Web Scraping download the JSON data
Convert the JSON data to Data Frame and download it into PC.
Clean the data with only required columns
Upload the data into google sheets.
Connect google sheets and google data studio
Create the dashboard with the data
Tools used
Python (Pandas, requests)
Google Sheets
Google Data Studio
Skills used
Analytics
Programming Language
Databases used
Contacts.csv
Customers.csv
Tickets.csv
Alerts.csv
What are the technical Challenges Faced during Project Execution?
I found it difficult on downloading the data.
How the Technical Challenges were Solved
Once I figured I have been using the wrong Authorization key to login I was able to solve the issue, and convert the curl command into python
Project Snapshots
Project website url
https://datastudio.google.com/reporting/5e61aecb-a420-41cc-afba-d0ca37f69132
Project Video
Previous article
Azure Data Lake and Power BI Dashboard
Next article
Big Data solution to an online multivendor marketplace eCommerce business
Ajay Bidyarthy
RELATED ARTICLES
MORE FROM AUTHOR
Integrating Machine Learning Code into Kubeflow Pipeline – Kuberflow MLOps Kubernetes
Facial Recognition Attendance System
Face Recognition Using DeepFace
MOST POPULAR INSIGHTS
Golden Record – A knowledge graph database approach to unfold discovery...
July 22, 2023
What are the key policies that will mitigate the impacts of...
April 28, 2020
Power BI Data-Driven Map Dashboard
February 26, 2022
Descriptive vs Inquisitive vs Predictive Analytics
April 4, 2019
Load more
RECOMMENDED INSIGHTS
What if the Creation is Taking Over the Creator?
Marbles Stimulation using python
Data integration and big data performance using Elasticsearch
How can Big Data & Analytics change the healthcare sector in...