Title: Car Detection in Satellite Images - Blackcoffer Insights

Home
Our Success Stories
Car Detection in Satellite Images
Our Success Stories
Fast Moving Consumer Goods
Production & manufacturing
Retail & Supply Chain
Car Detection in Satellite Images
By
Ajay Bidyarthy
-
July 21, 2023
5981
Client Background
Client:
A leading retail firm in the USA
Industry Type:
Retail
Services:
Retail business
Organization Size:
100+
Project Objective
The objective of this project was to detect cars in satellite images and highlight them using a bounding box.
Project Description
The client, Steffen Schneider, approached us with a requirement to develop a Python project that dealt in the field of computer vision. The main aim of the project was to detect cars present in a satellite image and highlight them using a bounding box. To achieve this, we decided to use the Darknet model and train it on Yolov4 dataset of cars in satellite images.
Our Solution
We used Google Colab for coding and training the Darknet model. Kaggle was used to download the Yolov4 dataset of cars in satellite images. We preprocessed the dataset and trained the model on it. Once the model was trained, we tested it on sample satellite images and it worked perfectly fine. Finally, we created a script that detected the cars in an image and highlighted them using a bounding box.
Project Deliverables
The final deliverable was a ipython Notebook presented on Google Colab.
Tools used
Google Colab, Kaggle, Slack(For Communication)
Language/techniques used
Python
Models used
Darknet(CV Model)
Skills used
Python programming, AI/ML.
What are the technical Challenges Faced during Project Execution
The main challenge we faced was related to the pre-processing of the Yolov4 dataset of cars in satellite images. The dataset was large and had to be cleaned and formatted before it could be used for training the model.
How the Technical Challenges were Solved
We used Python programming skills and developed a script that automated the pre-processing of the dataset. This saved us a lot of time and allowed us to focus on training the model.
Business Impact
The project was a success and the client was very happy with the final product. The car detection model worked perfectly fine on sample satellite images and could be used for further development of an application that could detect cars in real-time.
Project website url
https://colab.research.google.com/drive/1AoeHdZdpi0lWLf3X2G800J0VT_7wJtnE
Project Video
Contact Details
Here are my contact details:
Email: ajay@blackcoffer.com
Skype: asbidyarthy
WhatsApp: +91 9717367468
Telegram: @asbidyarthy
For project discussions and daily updates, would you like to use Slack, Skype, Telegram, or Whatsapp? Please recommend, what would work best for you.
Previous article
Building a Physics-Informed Neural Network for Circuit Evaluation
Next article
Using Graph Technology to Create Single Customer View.
Ajay Bidyarthy
RELATED ARTICLES
MORE FROM AUTHOR
Integrating Machine Learning Code into Kubeflow Pipeline – Kuberflow MLOps Kubernetes
Facial Recognition Attendance System
Face Recognition Using DeepFace
MOST POPULAR INSIGHTS
Enhancing Data Collection for Research Institutions: Addressing Survey Fatigue and Incorporating...
August 25, 2024
What is the chance Homo sapiens will survive for the next...
October 22, 2020
Elastic Kibana Specialist to Create Dashboard & Visualization
May 16, 2021
Grafana Dashboard to visualize and analyze sensors’ data
February 28, 2024
Load more
RECOMMENDED INSIGHTS
Understanding the Millennial Market
Amazon Buy Bot, an Automation AI tool to Auto-Checkouts
AI Receptionist | Voice Call Center | AI Lawyer | AI...
Budget, Sales KPI Dashboard using Power BI