Title: Integration of video-conferencing data to the existing web app - Blackcoffer Insights

Home
Our Success Stories
Integration of video-conferencing data to the existing web app
Our Success Stories
IT
Integration of video-conferencing data to the existing web app
By
Ajay Bidyarthy
-
September 15, 2022
5878
Client Background
Client:
A Leading Tech Firm in the USA
Industry Type:
IT & Consulting
Services:
Software, Business Solutions, Consulting
Organization Size:
200+
Project Description
Integration of 3
rd
party APIs to client’s platform.Client required meeting/conference data from sites like gotomeeting/zoom.
Our Solution
Using APIs fetched data from different platform and rendered data into client’s application.
Modifed web application with a UI to handle form data accepting dates as a timeframe – which then makes a request to the API being handled at server end and returns the meeting data from the required source.
Project Deliverables
Pushed code to client’s github repository.
Tools used
– Python
– Postman
Language/techniques used
– Automation
– 3
rd
party APIs
– Authenication methods
– Multi-Threading of function calls ( authentication of api client )
– UI component design to get dates from user-end
Models used
Python Framework- Django , requests
Skills used
Python Programming, APIs , Multi-threading , Web Developement
Databases used
Default project postgreSQL
Web Cloud Servers used
Heroku
What are the technical Challenges Faced during Project Execution
– UI creation for handling form data
– Managing and Validating form data to process request at server end
How the Technical Challenges were Solved
– Created autmated functions as views in django to handle requests made to video-conferencing platform.
– Which then returns meeting data as per user’s wish.
Business Impact
– Instead of extracting meeting data and adding it to all users
any authorized user can get meeting data as his wish.
Project website url
https://www.codanalytics.net/
Previous article
Design & develop an app in retool which shows the progress of the added video
Next article
A web-based dashboard for the filtered data retrieval of land records
Ajay Bidyarthy
RELATED ARTICLES
MORE FROM AUTHOR
Integrating Machine Learning Code into Kubeflow Pipeline – Kuberflow MLOps Kubernetes
Facial Recognition Attendance System
Face Recognition Using DeepFace
MOST POPULAR INSIGHTS
Efficient Processing and Analysis of Financial Data from PDF Files: Addressing...
August 25, 2024
Data ETL: Local Service Ads Leads to BigQuery
August 30, 2021
Portfolio: Website, Dashboard, SaaS Applications, Web Apps
July 13, 2022
Will Machine Replace The Human in the Future of Work?
June 25, 2021
Load more
RECOMMENDED INSIGHTS
Future of Work: How AI Has Entered the Workplace
Deep learning impact on areas of e-learning?
Oil prices by the year 2040, and how it will impact...
Building Custom TFLite Models and Benchmarking on VOXL2 Chips