Title: KPI Dashboard for Accountants - Blackcoffer Insights

Home
Our Success Stories
KPI Dashboard for Accountants
Our Success Stories
Banking Securities, and Insurance
KPI Dashboard for Accountants
By
Ajay Bidyarthy
-
July 21, 2023
5865
Client Background
Client:
A leading accounting firm in the USA
Industry Type:
Finance and Accouting
Services:
Accounting and financial services
Organization Size:
100+
Project Objective
The objective of the project was to create a simple and easy-to-use dashboard for the accounting firm Tech 4 Accountants to track their highest performers, target number of clients, current week sales, tickets, customer satisfaction, leads, conversion, company records, and finances.
Project Description
Our client, Andrew Lassise, wanted a KPI dashboard for Tech 4 Accountants that would help them track their business performance easily. The dashboard needed to have various charts and tables that would display important KPIs in a visually appealing manner.
Our Solution
To achieve our client’s objectives, we used Google Data Studio and Google Sheets to create a visually appealing and easy-to-use KPI dashboard. We created various charts and tables that displayed the KPIs that our client wanted to track. We used Google Sheets to store the data and created visualizations using Data Studio.
Project Deliverables
We delivered a KPI dashboard for Tech 4 Accountants that included charts and tables for tracking the highest performers, target number of clients, current week sales, tickets, customer satisfaction, leads, conversion, company records, and finances.
Tools used
Google Data Studio and Google Sheets
Skills used
Data Analytics
What are the technical Challenges Faced during Project Execution
There were no major technical challenges faced during the project execution as the data was stored in Google Sheets, and Data Studio allowed us to easily create visualizations using the data.
How the Technical Challenges were Solved
No major technical challenges were encountered, and the project was completed smoothly.
Business Impact
The KPI dashboard that we created for Tech 4 Accountants allowed them to track their business performance easily and make informed decisions. The dashboard helped them identify areas where they needed to improve and make changes to their business strategy accordingly.
Project Snapshots
Project website url
https://lookerstudio.google.com/u/1/reporting/fbf7879a-be79-4cb9-b7d4-783bf7447902/page/Hmg2C
Project Video
Previous article
Return on Advertising Spend Dashboard: Marketing Automation and Analytics using ETL and Dashboard
Next article
E-commerce Store Analysis – Purchase Behavior, Ad Spend, Conversion, Traffic, etc…
Ajay Bidyarthy
RELATED ARTICLES
MORE FROM AUTHOR
Integrating Machine Learning Code into Kubeflow Pipeline – Kuberflow MLOps Kubernetes
Facial Recognition Attendance System
Face Recognition Using DeepFace
MOST POPULAR INSIGHTS
Deploy MERN to google app engine, google cloud platform
May 16, 2021
Challenges and Opportunities of Big Data in Healthcare
July 19, 2019
The impact of the Metaverse on financial services
February 28, 2022
Easy Access to Performance Metrics – Realtime Dashboard
February 20, 2019
Load more
RECOMMENDED INSIGHTS
Transforming Insurance Claim Processing with Automation & Artificial Intelligence
IOT, AI, ML for Machine Tracking
AI audio and text conversational bot using livekit
How advertisement/marketing affects business.