Title: Real-time dashboard to monitor infrastructure activity and Machines - Blackcoffer Insights

Home
Our Success Stories
Real-time dashboard to monitor infrastructure activity and Machines
Our Success Stories
Infrastructure & Real Estate
IT
Real-time dashboard to monitor infrastructure activity and Machines
By
Ajay Bidyarthy
-
February 26, 2022
6246
Client Background
Client:
A leading tech firm in Europe
Industry Type:
IT
Services:
Software Services
Organization Size:
30+
Project Objective
For the current project, we hope to develop a real-time dashboard (* it updates every several minutes). Currently, we have multiple Ubuntu machines that are sending messages every minute to Apache Pulsar.
Project Description
Developing a realtime updating dashboard to display the metadata of various machines on a server from pandio queue.
The dahboard must display the count of “inactive” , “active” and “down” servers with a table displaying the details of all the machines in different color scheme for each type of server/machine.
Our Solution
We used Django framework to develop the dashboard as it didn’t require the ec2 instance to be active on machine which was the problem with using streamlit.
For communication between webpage and fetched data we used django channel .
We used django background task module to make the fetching run forever in background.
Project Deliverables
Real time updating Dashboard with separate color scheme for different types of machines.
Storing the historical data in sqlite3 db.
Tools used
Django
Web Channels
D3 js
Reddis server
Skills used
Python
Django Framework
Django web channels
HTML/CSS + JS
Databases used
Django sqlite3 database.
Web Cloud Servers used
AWS
What are the technical Challenges Faced during Project Execution
Making the dashboard run forever using streamlit
Data updation in realtime when using django channels
How the Technical Challenges were Solved
Switched the entire dashboard to django framework
We redirected data to channels on local reddis server.
Project Snapshots
Project website url
Development hosted URL
Previous article
Electric Vehicles (EV) Load Management System to Forecast Energy Demand
Next article
Power BI dashboard to drive insights from complex data to generate business insights
Ajay Bidyarthy
RELATED ARTICLES
MORE FROM AUTHOR
Integrating Machine Learning Code into Kubeflow Pipeline – Kuberflow MLOps Kubernetes
Facial Recognition Attendance System
Face Recognition Using DeepFace
MOST POPULAR INSIGHTS
PHP Technology Framework
April 4, 2019
Marketing Drives Results With A Focus On Problems
November 25, 2019
Advanced AI for Trading Automation
July 22, 2023
Gaming Disorder and Effects of Gaming on Health.
June 17, 2020
Load more
RECOMMENDED INSIGHTS
Rise of Cybercrime and its Effect by the Year 2040.
Big Data Integration & Infrastructure Solution
AI Conversational Bot using RASA
Portfolio: Website, Dashboard, SaaS Applications, Web Apps