Title: Monday.com to KPI Dashboard to manage, view, and generate insights from the CRM data - Blackcoffer Insights

Home
Our Success Stories
Monday.com to KPI Dashboard to manage, view, and generate insights from the...
Our Success Stories
Energy
Monday.com to KPI Dashboard to manage, view, and generate insights from the CRM data
By
Ajay Bidyarthy
-
July 29, 2023
5932
Client Background
Client:
A leading energy firm in the USA
Industry Type:
Energy
Services:
Solar panel
Organization Size:
200+
Project Objective
Setup a dashboard on Monday.com
Fetch client CRM data onto Monday.com dashboard.
Project Description
Mohsin has CRM for his business where he has all data regarding leads of his clients. He wanted to see all his client appointments at one place. Client took subscription of Monday.com. It is an CRM where you can manage your work more easily in neat and clean user-friendly environment. We can easily track our task on Monday.com. Pipeline for Monday.com is very easy to use and also customized according to our needs.
Our Solution
The challenging part of this project was to get CRM data on Monday.com dashboard. Client also has subscription of Zapier. Zapier is a connector which connect two apps to transfer data from each other. Zapier also has limitation to fetch limited type of data from CRM. Like for Mohsin CRM we can only fetch hot lead comes on CRM. But in his CRM there are also other functions like if a customer lead comes on CRM. They manually book appointment for that client. So there is no way to get that data from CRM. Issue for client was he has attached integrated four google calendar account with CRM so whenever he confirms appointment on CRM that data fetched on google calendar. But he has check manually one by one on each calendar which was bit hard task for him. So, we advised Monday.com where he can track all his task at one place.
Tools used
Monday.com
Zapier
Google Calendar
Databases used
Google Calendar
What are the technical Challenges Faced during Project Execution
The challenging part of this project was to get CRM data on Monday.com dashboard.There is no direct integration of CRM and Monday.com to fetch data.
How the Technical Challenges were Solved
To solve challenges, we used Zapier to get CRM data to dashboard of Monday.com. We used google calendar of client which were integrated with CRM. All the appointment confirmed leads were present on google calendar.
Pipeline of Data:
CRM 🡪 Google Calendar 🡪 Zapier 🡪 Monday.com
Business Impact
Using the Monday.com dashboard client can easily track all appointments of customers. He can track data of his team members and connect with them at one place. He will not miss any of his meeting with customer. Monday.com also has timeline and calendar view using that client can see all activity of his work.
Project Snapshots
CRM Calendar view
Monday.com
Google Calendar
Zapier
Project Video
Contact Details
Here are my contact details:
Email: ajay@blackcoffer.com
Skype: asbidyarthy
WhatsApp: +91 9717367468
Telegram: @asbidyarthy
For project discussions and daily updates, would you like to use Slack, Skype, Telegram, or Whatsapp? Please recommend, what would work best for you.
Previous article
Data Management for a Political SaaS Application
Next article
CRM, Monday.com via Zapier to Power BI Dashboard
Ajay Bidyarthy
RELATED ARTICLES
MORE FROM AUTHOR
Integrating Machine Learning Code into Kubeflow Pipeline – Kuberflow MLOps Kubernetes
Facial Recognition Attendance System
Face Recognition Using DeepFace
MOST POPULAR INSIGHTS
AI and ML-Based YouTube Analytics and Content Creation Tool for Optimizing...
August 26, 2024
Impact of AI in health and medicine
February 11, 2021
Cloud-Based Data Modeling and Analysis Platform with Drag-and-Drop Interface and OpenAI...
August 25, 2024
Streamlined Integration: Interactive Brokers API with Python for Desktop Trading Application
March 17, 2024
Load more
RECOMMENDED INSIGHTS
Automated Campaign Management System: A Comprehensive Solution with LinkedIn and Email...
AI Bot Audio to audio
From Utopia to Reality: Marketing and the Big Data Revolution
Deep learning impact on areas of e-learning?