Title: A web-based dashboard for the filtered data retrieval of land records - Blackcoffer Insights

Home
Our Success Stories
A web-based dashboard for the filtered data retrieval of land records
Our Success Stories
Infrastructure & Real Estate
A web-based dashboard for the filtered data retrieval of land records
By
Ajay Bidyarthy
-
September 15, 2022
6025
Client Background
Client:
A Leading Real Estate Firm in the USA
Industry Type:
Real Estate
Services:
Land, Infrastructure, Real Estate, Investment
Organization Size:
100+
Project Description
The client’s own raw database needed to be converted into a dynamic web application with modern features like user management and subscription where users could explore land records as per their wish.
Our Solution
Created the web application as per client needs.
Added user functionality to handle signup/logins and added authorization middlewares to protect routes from unwanted access.
Transformed raw data into a meaningful NoSQL-based database with a proper schema being served as an instance on a cloud service named
‘ MongoDB Atlas ‘.
Project Deliverables
Pushed code to the required GitHub repository.
Tools used
– Vanilla javascript
– Javascript Frameworks ( Nodejs, express , cors )
– Postman
Language/techniques used
– JavsScript
– Backend Service setup ( express, cors , js )
– Fronted logic setup ( HTML , CSS , JavaScript , Jquery )
Models used
Backend: An API service created to handle land records database and queries made by users.
Frontend: A frontend client is available as a web application where users can signup and access land records.
Skills used
JavaScript Programming, APIs, JavaScript Frameworks ( NodeJS, Express  , cors ) , Web Design, NoSQL querying in MongoDB.
Databases used
MongoDB (NoSQL)
Web Cloud Servers used
MongoDB Atlas
What are the technical Challenges Faced during Project Execution
– UI component creation
– User authorization middleware creation
– Querying data in NoSQL
How the Technical Challenges were Solved
– Created and extended UI components to handle filters like owners, date fields, and area ranges on land records.
– API and Frontend are separately built for easier team management of tasks.
– Using a cloud-based MongoDB instance provided support for teams to work without any problems with accessibility.
Business Impact
– Created a platform for clients’ business.
– Transformed his raw data into meaningful business applications.
Previous article
Integration of video-conferencing data to the existing web app
Next article
Integration of a product to a cloud-based CRM platform
Ajay Bidyarthy
RELATED ARTICLES
MORE FROM AUTHOR
Integrating Machine Learning Code into Kubeflow Pipeline – Kuberflow MLOps Kubernetes
Facial Recognition Attendance System
Face Recognition Using DeepFace
MOST POPULAR INSIGHTS
How COVID-19 is impacting payment preferences?
June 22, 2020
Enhancing Front-End Features and Functionality for Improved User Experience and Dashboard...
August 26, 2024
Lipsync Automation for Celebrities and Influencers
September 5, 2021
Will Machine Replace The Human in the Future of Work?
June 25, 2021
Load more
RECOMMENDED INSIGHTS
Data Studio Dashboard with a data pipeline tool synced with Podio...
How are people diverted to Telehealth services and telemedicine?
How marketers can start integrating AI in their work
How to increase social media engagement for marketers?