Title: Electric Vehicles (EV) Load Management System to Forecast Energy Demand - Blackcoffer Insights

Home
Our Success Stories
Electric Vehicles (EV) Load Management System to Forecast Energy Demand
Our Success Stories
Energy
Electric Vehicles (EV) Load Management System to Forecast Energy Demand
By
Ajay Bidyarthy
-
February 26, 2022
6003
Client Background
Client:
A leading energy consulting firm in the USA
Industry Type:
Energy
Services:
Energy solutions, Consultancy
Organization Size:
100+
Project Objective
Create a Machine learning solution to manage electricity for electric vehicles.
Main Tasks:
Percentage probability of  user plugin his vehicle today by user’s plugin date history
Reduce the probability of plugin time according to user’s plugin time history
Project Description
We need to calculate the date and time probability that the user will plugin his vehicle today based on his plugin date and plugin time history. We also need to decrease time probability based on the user’s past time range.
Our Solution
We converted the user’s plugin data into binary values like 0 if the user hasn’t plugged-in his vehicle on that day and 1 if he plugged-in. We identified the driven distance based on the amount of charge used between two plug-in times. Then we trained the Ridge Regression ML model for identifying each day driven kilometer. From these kilometres we have identified the probability that user’s will plug-in today and it will increase day by day till the user does not plug-in his vehicle.
For time probability we have used Probability Distribution Function (PDF) and Cumulative Distribution Function  (CDF). These functions will decrease probability according to the user’s time range.
Project Deliverables
2 python scripts to:
Train regression model every day.
Use model weights to generate probability values.
Tools used
Google Colab, VS Code, Google Drive, and MS Excel.
Language/techniques used
Python programming language, Data Analytics with numpy and pandas, Data Visualization with matplotlib, Statistics and Mathematics, Machine learning with SKlearn.
Models used
Ridge Regression Model
Skills used
Data Analytics, Data Visualization, Machine learning, Python, Statistics
Databases used
local data from MS Excel Sheet
What are the technical Challenges Faced during Project Execution
There are a lot of challenges faced during project execution
At the start, we have only imaginary data so need to convert in a good format to apply machine learning models.
Find the best machine learning model for the data.
Decrease the time probability according to user’s time range
How the Technical Challenges were Solved
We have converted the data into weekday’s binary values like marked 0 if not plugged-in vehicle on that day and 1 if plugged and calculated driven distance by amount of charge used between two plugin dates.
Tried different regression based machine learning models like Random Forest Regressor, XGBoost Regressor, Ridge Regression and checked accuracies of all models and choosed best one.
For decreasing time probability we used Probability Distribution Function (PDF) and Cumulative Distribution Function (CDF). These functions decrease probability according to the user’s time range.
Project Snapshots
Previous article
Power BI Data-Driven Map Dashboard
Next article
Real-time dashboard to monitor infrastructure activity and Machines
Ajay Bidyarthy
RELATED ARTICLES
MORE FROM AUTHOR
Integrating Machine Learning Code into Kubeflow Pipeline – Kuberflow MLOps Kubernetes
Facial Recognition Attendance System
Face Recognition Using DeepFace
MOST POPULAR INSIGHTS
Should people wear fabric gloves? Seeking evidence regarding the differential transfer...
March 30, 2020
Streamlined Integration: Interactive Brokers API with Python for Desktop Trading Application
March 17, 2024
Marketing Tool to Notify Leads to Clients over Email and Phone
August 30, 2021
How robots can help in e-learning platforms?
July 19, 2021
Load more
RECOMMENDED INSIGHTS
Elastic Kibana Specialist to Create Dashboard & Visualization
Impacts of COVID 19 on Vegetable Vendors
How does AI help to monitor Retail Shelf watches?
Gender diversity and Equality in the tech industry