Title: Algorithmic trading for multiple commodities markets, like Forex, Metals, Energy, etc. - Blackcoffer Insights

Home
Our Success Stories
Algorithmic trading for multiple commodities markets, like Forex, Metals, Energy, etc.
Our Success Stories
Banking Securities, and Insurance
Algorithmic trading for multiple commodities markets, like Forex, Metals, Energy, etc.
By
Ajay Bidyarthy
-
December 31, 2022
6371
Client Background
Client:
A Leading Trading Firm in the USA
Industry Type:
Finance
Services:
Trading, Consulting, Software
Organization Size:
100+
The Problem
A Trading site will have all the required features, allowing users to trade in multiple commodities markets, like Forex, Agriculture, Metals, Energy etc.
Our Solution
Designed the website with technical indicators, and the ability to trade in live market, plus allows the user to create his/her own strategy to backtest. Functionalities like all types of technical indicators:
Trend following
mean reversion
relative strength
volume
momentum.
Strategies are specific scripts, which are able to send, modify, execute, and cancel buy or sell orders and simulate real trading right on your chart. Backtesting is the process of recreating the work of your strategies on historical data, essentially all of your past strategic work. Forward testing allows for the recreation of your strategy work in real time, all while your charts refresh their data.
Solution Architecture
Deliverables
A Fully functional trading platform that lets you customize technical indicators, create charts, and analyse financial assets. These indicators are patterns, lines, and shapes that millions of traders use every day. Platform designed is entirely browser-based, with no need to download a client. Allowing the user to use all types of indicators:
Trend following
mean reversion
relative strength
volume
momentum.
Tools used
Numpy
pandas
Language/techniques used
Python
Business Impact
Clients want a social media network, analysis platform, and mobile app for traders and investors. So we designed a website with all the client’s requirements, where traders, investors, educators, and market enthusiasts can connect to share ideas and talk about the market. By actively participating in community engagement and conversation, you can accelerate your growth as a trader, and your ability to trade in the live market, plus allows the user to create his/her own strategy to backtest. A Fully functional trading platform that lets you customize technical indicators, create charts and analyze financial assets. These indicators are patterns, lines, and shapes that millions of traders use every day. Platform designed is entirely browser-based, with no need to download a client. Allowing the user to use all types of indicators
Project Snapshots
Previous article
Trading Bot for FOREX
Next article
Ranking customer behaviours for business strategy
Ajay Bidyarthy
RELATED ARTICLES
MORE FROM AUTHOR
Integrating Machine Learning Code into Kubeflow Pipeline – Kuberflow MLOps Kubernetes
Facial Recognition Attendance System
Face Recognition Using DeepFace
MOST POPULAR INSIGHTS
Integration of video-conferencing data to the existing web app
September 15, 2022
Rise of Chatbots and its impact on customer support by the...
January 2, 2023
How Python became the first choice for Data Science.
March 4, 2021
Benefits of Big Data in Different fields
July 20, 2021
Load more
RECOMMENDED INSIGHTS
CallRail, Analytics & Leads Report Alert
How are genetic sequencing maps affected by deep learning and AI?
AI and ML-Based YouTube Analytics and Content Creation Tool for Optimizing...
Credit Scoring model