Title: An ETL Solution for Currency Data to Google Big Query - Blackcoffer Insights

Home
Our Success Stories
An ETL Solution for Currency Data to Google Big Query
Our Success Stories
IT
An ETL Solution for Currency Data to Google Big Query
By
Ajay Bidyarthy
-
September 16, 2022
5845
Client Background
Client:
A Leading Tech Firm in the USA
Industry Type:
IT Consulting
Services:
Software, Consulting
Organization Size:
100+
Project Objective
Fetch currency data from Pure-clear API and store it to Google cloud BigQuery.
Create a Google cloud function to automate the above process.
Project Description
We have given a pure-clear API and a google cloud account. We need to fetch currency data from that pure-clear API using python and need to store fetched data in Google Cloud Bigquery.
We also need to automate the above process like the process runs on a daily basis and update the currency data on Bigquery.
Our Solution
We have created a python program that can fetch pure-clear API data. The API data was in JSON format but we needed table format so we used python package pandas. We converted json data to tabular format using pandas. After that, we connected python code to google cloud using google’s authentication module and then stored data frame (table) directly to BigQuery using the “.to_gbq” method.
We also need to run the above process daily to update new data in BigQuery. For this Google cloud provides a “Cloud function” tool. In this, we can create a function and set up their running process. So we created a function and attached the above code to that function and set up a cloud function to run daily.
Project Deliverables
A Google cloud function that runs daily and updates data on Google BigQuery
Tools used
Cloud function, BigQuery of Google Cloud, Google Colab notebook, Python programming, Pandas
Language/techniques used
Python language and pandas module
Skills used
Python programming, Data handling, Google Cloud
Databases used
Google Cloud BigQuery
Web Cloud Servers used
Google Cloud Server
What are the technical Challenges Faced during Project Execution
Connecting google cloud to python code is challenging because Its credentials should be in a specified format otherwise it shows an authentication error.
How the Technical Challenges were Solved
To tackle this challenge we created a dictionary format (key-value pair) and stored all the authentication variables in the dictionary as a key value pair. Then we used google’s authentication library “google.auth” and passed a dictionary to the service_account method and stored it in different variables so we can store data from pandas dataframe to Google BigQuery.
Project Snapshots
Previous article
ETL and MLOps Infrastructure for Blockchain Analytics
Next article
Design and develop solution to anomaly detection classification problems
Ajay Bidyarthy
RELATED ARTICLES
MORE FROM AUTHOR
Integrating Machine Learning Code into Kubeflow Pipeline – Kuberflow MLOps Kubernetes
Facial Recognition Attendance System
Face Recognition Using DeepFace
MOST POPULAR INSIGHTS
Auvik, Connectwise integration in Grafana
July 13, 2022
Website Tracking and Insights using Google Analytics, & Google Tag Manager
July 1, 2022
Enhancing Model Accuracy from 58% to Over 90%: Strategies for Improving...
August 25, 2024
Integration of video-conferencing data to the existing web app
September 15, 2022
Load more
RECOMMENDED INSIGHTS
Recommendation System Architecture
Cloud-Based Web Application for Financial Data Processing and Visualization of S&P...
Integrating and Deriving Insights from the Cost of Equity
Rise of cybercrime and its effect by the year 2040.