Title: Incident Duration Prediction - Infrastructure and Real Estate - Blackcoffer Insights

Home
Our Success Stories
Incident Duration Prediction – Infrastructure and Real Estate
Our Success Stories
Infrastructure & Real Estate
Research & Academia
Incident Duration Prediction – Infrastructure and Real Estate
By
Ajay Bidyarthy
-
February 27, 2022
5784
Client Background
Client:
A leading research institution in the middle east
Industry Type:
Research
Services:
R&D
Organization Size:
1000+
Project Objective
To complete a Research Paper draft by training various Machine Learning models which can predict the Incident Duration based on various parameters given in the dataset and summarising the results.
Project Description
Given a set of researches, need to analyse and compare various machine learning and deep learning models to predict the Incident Duration for the given dataset. The dataset contained Short durations as well as Long durations. Build models for each set of durations, compare and get the best out of all.
Our Solution
Here, we had to predict the traffic incident duration with some machine learning tools and techniques i.e. XGBoost, SVR and Deep Learning algorithm using tensor flow. First two models were run on Python Interpreter whereas Deep learning model was run on R studio, all the three with the same dataset and then we had compared these models based on their MAE (mean absolute error). Initially, we had done a preliminary analysis of the collected incident duration data, to collect the statistical characteristics of all the variables used in our research.
Project Deliverables
Python Script for each model.
Documentation for Research Work.
Tools used
Python Interpreter
Language/techniques used
Language Used: Python
Libraries Used: pandas, sklearn, numpy, keras, pickle
Models used
XGBRegressor
SVR
SGDRegressor
Sequential
DecisionTreeRegressor
Skills used
Programming, Statistical Analysis
Project Snapshots
Previous article
Statistical Data Analysis of Reinforced Concrete
Next article
How does Metaverse work in the Financial sector?
Ajay Bidyarthy
RELATED ARTICLES
MORE FROM AUTHOR
Integrating Machine Learning Code into Kubeflow Pipeline – Kuberflow MLOps Kubernetes
Facial Recognition Attendance System
Face Recognition Using DeepFace
MOST POPULAR INSIGHTS
How the COVID-19 crisis is redefining jobs and services?
August 15, 2020
Replacing existing pavement roads, parking lots and sidewalks with pavement made...
July 17, 2019
Marketing Ads Leads Call Status Data Tool to BigQuery
August 30, 2021
Text to Speech, html
May 10, 2019
Load more
RECOMMENDED INSIGHTS
Rise of Electric Vehicles and its Impact on Livelihood by 2040
The future of Fintech AI & blockchain.
Big Data Platform and Data Lake Tool
Streamlined Trading Operations Interface for MetaTrader 4: Empowering Efficient Management and...