Title: Design and develop solution to anomaly detection classification problems - Blackcoffer Insights

Home
Our Success Stories
Design and develop solution to anomaly detection classification problems
Our Success Stories
Banking Securities, and Insurance
IT
Design and develop solution to anomaly detection classification problems
By
Ajay Bidyarthy
-
September 16, 2022
5934
Client Background
Client:
A Leading Tech Firm in the USA
Industry Type:
IT Consulting
Services:
Software, Consulting
Organization Size:
100+
Project Description
We need to create a notebook with solutions to binary classification-related anomaly detection problems. We need to use machine learning and deep learning models which have greater than 90% accuracy.
Our Solution
We created a notebook for anomaly detection. We used 10 to 15 machine learning and deep learning models but only  3 different types of auto encoder models that were giving greater than 90% accuracy. We trained all 3 models on one classification data which have anomalies and evaluated trained models on test data.
Project Deliverables
A notebook that has solutions for anomaly detection related classification problems and accuracy should be above 90%.
Tools used
Google colab notebooks, Tensorflow, Google drive
Language/techniques used
Python programming language, Machine learning, Deep learning, Data analysis and Data visualization.
Models used
Auto Encoder and Variational Auto Encoder
Skills used
Python, Data Analysis, Data visualization, Machine learning, Deep learning.
Databases used
MS Excel
What are the technical Challenges Faced during Project Execution
Most of the anomaly detection models work with regression type data and this problem was classification problem so we need to deal with classification data.
Getting high accuracy is also a tough challenge for us because there are only a few models which work well on anomaly detection related classification problems.
How the Technical Challenges were Solved
So we have limited models for this problem so we used only classification models like Autoencoders, Isolation forest and one class svm.
Only Autoencoder was giving high accuracy so we worked with different types of autoencoders like variational autoencoder and normal autoencoder.
Project Snapshots
Previous article
An ETL Solution for Currency Data to Google Big Query
Next article
Design & Develop BERT Question Answering model explanations with visualization
Ajay Bidyarthy
RELATED ARTICLES
MORE FROM AUTHOR
Integrating Machine Learning Code into Kubeflow Pipeline – Kuberflow MLOps Kubernetes
Facial Recognition Attendance System
Face Recognition Using DeepFace
MOST POPULAR INSIGHTS
Marbles Stimulation using python
August 30, 2021
Key Audit Matters Predictive Modeling
September 5, 2021
What do you think is the lesson (or lessons) to be...
March 30, 2020
How COVID-19 is impacting payment preferences?
June 22, 2020
Load more
RECOMMENDED INSIGHTS
Do All Social Media Is Owned By Meta?
Population and Community Survey of America
What is Data Exfiltration?
The Prospective Recipe of Success in the Age of Analytics