Title: MetaBridges API Decentraland Integration - AR, VR - Blackcoffer Insights

Home
Our Success Stories
MetaBridges API Decentraland Integration – AR, VR
Our Success Stories
Infrastructure & Real Estate
IT
MetaBridges API Decentraland Integration – AR, VR
By
Ajay Bidyarthy
-
January 24, 2022
6381
Client Background
Client:
A leading tech firm in the USA
Industry Type:
IT
Services:
Consulting, Software, Blockchain, Metaverse
Organization Size:
20+
Project Objective
To integrate with Metaverse environments with the help of EC2, S3 bucket and the Decentraland SDK.
Project Description
Move 3D model files from EC2 instance to S3 bucked using aws-sdk.
Our Solution
Configure  s3 bucket in aws account, create an user for s3 bucket api keys, and
api secret. Put the api key, aapi secret, bucket name and bucket region in
environment variable to use them in app. Install aws-sdk to implement s3 bucket.
Create a function to send file from nodejs server to s3 bucket.
Project Deliverables
Aws ec2 instance credentials, s3 bucket credentials. Code used in the project
Tools used
vs code editor, git bash terminal, google chrome web browser.  Metamask wallet, cryptocurrency, blockchain, bitcoin,  metamask, metaverse, VR, AR, Virtual Reality, Augmented Reality
Language/techniques used
Javascript language is used.  Metamask wallet, cryptocurrency, blockchain, bitcoin,  metamask, metaverse, VR, AR, Virtual Reality, Augmented Reality
Models used
dcl SDK (Decentraland sdk for nodejs), aws-sdk, awscli.
Skills used
Node js project setup, Dcl sdk setup, Aws ec2 instance setup with aws cli,
S3 bucket connection with aws-sdk. cryptocurrency, blockchain, bitcoin, metamask, metaverse, VR, AR, Virtual Reality, Augmented Reality
Databases used
No database is used
Web Cloud Servers used
AWS cloud server is used
What are the technical Challenges Faced during Project Execution
Making the application port in ec2 instance available globaly.
How the Technical Challenges were Solved
Search few blogs and videos for the solution. And make it done by doing some change in
Security group in ec2 instance.
Business Impact
As Decentraland is a platform based of NFT so main part of business is related to NFT and cryptocurrency.
Project Snapshots
Project Video
Previous article
Microsoft Azure chatbot with LUIS (Language Understanding)
Next article
AWS Lex Voice and Chatbot
Ajay Bidyarthy
RELATED ARTICLES
MORE FROM AUTHOR
Integrating Machine Learning Code into Kubeflow Pipeline – Kuberflow MLOps Kubernetes
Facial Recognition Attendance System
Face Recognition Using DeepFace
MOST POPULAR INSIGHTS
AI Conversational Bot using RASA
February 19, 2022
Predictive Modelling, AI, ML Dashboards in Power BI
June 26, 2021
Lessons from the past: Some key learnings relevant to the coronavirus...
April 29, 2020
Estimating the impact of COVID-19 on the world of work
April 30, 2020
Load more
RECOMMENDED INSIGHTS
Estimating the impact of COVID-19 on the world of work
AI and ML technologies to Evaluate Learning Assessments
How to access Amazon Seller Central or Vendor Central data in...
Efficient AWS Infrastructure Setup and Management: Addressing Security, Scalability, and Compliance