Title: Optimize the data scraper program to easily accommodate large files and solve OOM errors - Blackcoffer Insights

Home
Our Success Stories
Optimize the data scraper program to easily accommodate large files and solve...
Our Success Stories
IT
Optimize the data scraper program to easily accommodate large files and solve OOM errors
By
Ajay Bidyarthy
-
May 13, 2022
5746
Client Background
Client:
A leading tech firm in India
Industry Type:
IT Services
Services:
SAAS services, Marketing services, Business consultant
Organization Size:
100+
Project Description
Building a large data warehouse that houses projects and tenders data from all over the world that is to be collected from official government websites, multilateral banks, state and local government agencies, data aggregating websites, etc.
Our Solution
We had tried multiple solutions to prevent the program from running out of memory. We used python pandas techniques to control the use of memory which worked for some files and did not work for others. Provided more solutions using vaex ,dask module and datatables.
Project Deliverables
Desired changes to the code and committing them to github.
Tools used
Vscode
Python
Github
Slack
Language/techniques used
Chunking
dask Dataframe
vaex
datatable
python.
Skills used
Cloud
Python
Time complexity
What are the technical Challenges Faced during Project Execution
System specs requirement was the main issue during this project because the RAM available was too less and got used up quickly.
How the Technical Challenges were Solved
Team viewer to use remote desktop which had higher specs would be sufficient enough to solve the problem.
Business Impact
Provided various techniques to solve memory issues.
Suggested parallel programming to decrease the execution time by 12% making getting the tender data at a much faster rate.
Project Snapshots
Project website url
https://github.com/Taiyo-ai/opentenders-eu
https://opentender.eu
Previous article
Making a robust way to sync data from airtables to mongoDB using python – ETL Solution
Next article
NFT Data Automation (looksrare), and ETL tool
Ajay Bidyarthy
RELATED ARTICLES
MORE FROM AUTHOR
Integrating Machine Learning Code into Kubeflow Pipeline – Kuberflow MLOps Kubernetes
Facial Recognition Attendance System
Face Recognition Using DeepFace
MOST POPULAR INSIGHTS
Marketing Analytics to Automate Leads Call Status and Reporting
August 30, 2021
Impact of COVID-19 pandemic on Tourism & Aviation industries
June 22, 2020
Data Analytics as a Tool to Reduce the Cost of Production...
February 21, 2018
Methodology for database discovery tool using openai, LLMA, Langchain
February 27, 2024
Load more
RECOMMENDED INSIGHTS
Recommendation System for Posts and Articles.
Lessons from the past: Some key learnings relevant to the coronavirus...
Deploy Nodejs app on a cloud VM such as GCP, AWS,...
Estimating the impact of COVID-19 on the world of work