Title: Splitting of Songs into its Vocals and Instrumental - Blackcoffer Insights

Home
Our Success Stories
Splitting of Songs into its Vocals and Instrumental
Our Success Stories
Entertainment
IT
Splitting of Songs into its Vocals and Instrumental
By
Ajay Bidyarthy
-
September 4, 2021
6775
Client Background
Client:
A leading Entertainment firm in the USA
Industry Type:
Entertainment
Services:
Music
Organization Size:
100+
Project Objective
The objective of this project is to split a song into its vocals and instrumental.
Project Description
The project aims at taking a Hindi language song as input and separating the vocals(lyrics) from the instrumental music of the song. Save both the vocals and instrumental files separately as output.
Our Solution
I have used Python programming language for this project. The use of a Python library called Spleeter developed by Deezer has been made to achieve our goal.
Spleeter
is Deezer source separation library with pretrained models written in Python and uses Tensorflow. It makes it easy to train source separation model (assuming you have a dataset of isolated sources), and provides already trained state of the art model for performing various flavor of separation :
Vocals (singing voice) / accompaniment separation (
2 stems
)
Vocals / drums / bass / other separation (
4 stems
)
Vocals / drums / bass / piano / other separation (
5 stems
)
2 stems and 4 stems models have high performance on the
musdb
dataset.
Spleeter
is also very fast as it can perform separation of audio files to 4 stems 100x faster than real-time when run on a GPU.
Project Deliverables
Python tool that takes Hindi song as input and gives two audio files as output: vocals file and instrumental file.
Language/techniques used
Python
Models used
2 Stems model
Skills used
Advanced Python programming
Project Snapshots
Previous article
AI and ML technologies to Evaluate Learning Assessments
Next article
Key Audit Matters Predictive Modeling
Ajay Bidyarthy
RELATED ARTICLES
MORE FROM AUTHOR
Integrating Machine Learning Code into Kubeflow Pipeline – Kuberflow MLOps Kubernetes
Facial Recognition Attendance System
Face Recognition Using DeepFace
MOST POPULAR INSIGHTS
What is the chance Homo sapiens will survive for the next...
October 22, 2020
What are the challenges, and acceptance of e-learning during the COVID-19...
December 7, 2021
Driving Insights from the Largest Community for Investors and Traders
October 8, 2020
Future of Work: Robot, AI and Automation
June 26, 2021
Load more
RECOMMENDED INSIGHTS
Data Integration for Marketers
How does artificial intelligence affect the environment
How Python became the first choice for Data Science.
Sports Prediction Model for Multiple Sports Leagues