Title: AI and ML technologies to Evaluate Learning Assessments - Blackcoffer Insights

Home
Our Success Stories
AI and ML technologies to Evaluate Learning Assessments
Our Success Stories
IT
Research & Academia
AI and ML technologies to Evaluate Learning Assessments
By
Ajay Bidyarthy
-
September 4, 2021
6867
Client Background
Client:
A leading EduTech firm in the USA
Industry Type:
EduTech
Services:
Educations. Training
Organization Size:
1000+
Project Objective
Confirmation / Identification of data that can be used / obtained without bias.
Understanding the Actions that are required to be performed post analytics.
Converting the data into metrics using formulae that can be used to conduct the analysis.
Project Description
It is a culture management platform that uses learning as the fundamental mode of communication. The platform requires an Analytics portion that captures a variety of data related to the interaction of the learner with content, assessments, engagements and forums to create personalized learning plans for each user to increase the effectiveness of learning and its retention which together make an impact on the overall productivity of the learner and the organization.
Our Solution
We helped the client in deciding the data required for the analysis process. We came up with the appropriate models for various tasks and interpretations of how the data will be collected and analysed for the initial response, final response, retention, proficiency, and learning intent of the user. We designed the models in such a way that one can perform seamlessly grading for each question type (based on difficulty level) and at a different hierarchical level (sub-section, section, training, and so on). We knew that each user has its unique aptitude level (basic, intermediate, and advanced) and keeping that in my mind, we incorporated those aptitude levels in our analytics too. Moreover, we integrated the grade and time factor into the analysis so that more points are allotted for comparatively tough questions and quick responses, respectively.
Project Deliverables
MS Excel sheet, Google spreadsheets with proper tables and visualizations.
Tools used
Jupyter notebook, MS Excel, Google Spreadsheets.
Language/techniques used
Python.
Skills used
Data science and analytics.
Databases used
Generated our data through data simulation.
What are the technical Challenges Faced during Project Execution?
Data analytics is all about analysing and finding patterns in the data that already exist or are getting generated in real-time. However, this project is in the budding stage, and we had no data to start our analysis. Moreover, this project is novel, and the dataset that meets our requirements was nearly impossible to find online.
How the Technical Challenges were Solved
We performed data simulation techniques and tried to generate the data as authentic as possible using some libraries in python and random functions in spreadsheets. We also generated the data manually at a small scale, but we made sure that we are including every human factor in it.
Project Snapshots (Minimum 10 Pictures)
Previous article
Datawarehouse, and Recommendations Engine for AirBNB
Next article
Splitting of Songs into its Vocals and Instrumental
Ajay Bidyarthy
RELATED ARTICLES
MORE FROM AUTHOR
Integrating Machine Learning Code into Kubeflow Pipeline – Kuberflow MLOps Kubernetes
Facial Recognition Attendance System
Face Recognition Using DeepFace
MOST POPULAR INSIGHTS
The future of Investing
August 31, 2019
Data Management, ETL, and Data Automation
August 6, 2023
How Metaverse will change your life?
February 3, 2022
Incident Duration Prediction – Infrastructure and Real Estate
February 27, 2022
Load more
RECOMMENDED INSIGHTS
On-Page SEO
Impact of Indian Economy due to COVID-19
How to increase social media engagement for marketers?
Building a Real-Time Log File Visualization Dashboard in Kibana