Title: Making a robust way to sync data from airtables to mongoDB using python - ETL Solution - Blackcoffer Insights

Home
Our Success Stories
Making a robust way to sync data from airtables to mongoDB using...
Our Success Stories
IT
Making a robust way to sync data from airtables to mongoDB using python – ETL Solution
By
Ajay Bidyarthy
-
May 13, 2022
7195
Client Background
Client:
A leading tech firm in the USA
Industry Type:
IT Services
Services:
SAAS services, Marketing services, Business consultant
Organization Size:
100+
Project Description
Equilo is a social impact start-up focused on gender equality and social inclusion. We need to link data in Airtable (1 million+ records spread across 20+ bases) to MongoDB (v3.x.x).
Most of the data is backend data for our app, in which case the flow is only AT to MDB.
Need to create a code that can calculate a scores by pulling from indicators in many different bases and putting result in new database.
Our Solution
Used Python and MongoDB module along with Airtable API to fetch all the data from airtables and push them to the database. Stayed in touch with the client through slack and asana completing daily tasks and applying a cronjob for the program to run on a scheduled time.
Project Deliverables
Python code for sync into their staging server and then to production.
Tools used
VScode
MongoDB
Airtable API
Slack
Asana
Github
Language/techniques used
Python
MongoDb
SQL
Skills used
Data extraction
Data handling
Data storage
Computational data queries
Databases used
Airtables
MongoDB
Web Cloud Servers used
Airtable
What are the technical Challenges Faced during Project Execution
Main challenge faced was regarding the new concept of Airtables and syncing up the data into mongodb in a very complex schema as proposed by the client. Dissimilar columns in mongoDB and Airtables for 100s of tables took lot of time.
Also insufficient information provided by client while coding and the previous versions codes that had been written only to discover them on a later stage caused a lot of problem.
Not proper code management which could help next coders like me to complete the remaining stuff quickly.
How the Technical Challenges were Solved
These issues were solved by lot of self study and evaluation and then asking the exact question to client which they would then answer. For eg: whereabouts of the previous codes and people who run that code.
Business Impact
Helped them immensely making their backend to frontend integration seamless.
Sped up their product development by 20% to calculate various different scores and visualize them on the frontend.
Project Snapshots
Project website url
https://www.equilo.io/
Previous article
Google Local Service Ads LSA API To Google BigQuery to Google Data Studio
Next article
Optimize the data scraper program to easily accommodate large files and solve OOM errors
Ajay Bidyarthy
RELATED ARTICLES
MORE FROM AUTHOR
Integrating Machine Learning Code into Kubeflow Pipeline – Kuberflow MLOps Kubernetes
Facial Recognition Attendance System
Face Recognition Using DeepFace
MOST POPULAR INSIGHTS
The Future of Bank Risk Management
June 1, 2019
Integration of a product to a cloud-based CRM platform
September 15, 2022
Time Series Analysis and Trend Forecasting Solution for Predicting News Trends
August 25, 2024
How Coronavirus Impact on the Hospitality Industry
April 30, 2020
Load more
RECOMMENDED INSIGHTS
Marketing Drives Results With A Focus On Problems
Changing landscape and emerging trends in the Indian IT/ITeS Industry.
Transforming Insurance Claim Processing with Automation & Artificial Intelligence
Google Local Service Ads LSA API To Google BigQuery to Google...